docs/providers/model-providers.md, before:

---
title: Model Providers
keywords: [Casibase, Model Provider]
authors: [IsAurora6]
---

## Introduction

Model providers connect AI capabilities to your Casibase instance. They power everything from chatbots to document analysis by integrating large language models (LLMs) directly into your knowledge base workflows.

### Add a Model Provider

Adding a model provider takes just a few clicks:

Click the `Providers` button on the home page.

![Casibase-home-providers](/img/walkthrough-guides/casibase-home-providers.png)

Click the `Add` button to add a model provider.

![Casibase-providers-add](/img/walkthrough-guides/casibase-providers-add.png)

#### Fill in Model Provider Details

Fill in the model provider details and click the `Save & Exit` button.

![Casibase-model-openai](/img/walkthrough-guides/casibase-model-openai.png)

### Supported Providers

| Provider | Models & Features |
|----------|-------------------|
| [OpenAI](https://openai.com/) | GPT-3.5-turbo, GPT-4, o1 series. Reasoning models show step-by-step thinking. Web search available for real-time information. |
| [Azure OpenAI](https://azure.microsoft.com/en-us/products/ai-foundry/models/openai/) | Access OpenAI models through Azure infrastructure with official SDK support. |
| [Alibaba Cloud](https://www.alibabacloud.com/) | Qwen models and DeepSeek (v3, v3.1, v3.2, R1). Web search with inline results. |
| [DeepSeek](https://www.deepseek.com/) | DeepSeek v3.x series and R1 for reasoning-focused tasks. |
| [Hugging Face](https://huggingface.co/) | Open-source models including Llama-2, ChatGLM2, Baichuan2, and thousands more. |
| [OpenRouter](https://openrouter.ai/) | Unified API access to Claude, PaLM, GPT-4, and other providers. |
| [Ollama](https://ollama.com/) | Run models like Llama, Mistral, and Phi locally on your machine. No API key needed. |

:::caution Configuration Notes

When adding a provider, configure these fields:

- **Category**: Choose `Model` for language models or `Embedding` for text vectorization
- **Type**: Select the specific provider (OpenAI, Hugging Face, Ollama, etc.)
- **SecretKey**: Your API key or access token
  - Required for cloud providers like OpenAI, Azure OpenAI, DeepSeek
  - Not needed for Ollama (runs locally without authentication)

**Example: Adding OpenAI**

![Casibase-model-select](/img/walkthrough-guides/casibase-model-select.png)

:::

:::caution Streaming Support

Not all models support streaming output (showing responses as they're generated). GPT-3.5-turbo and most modern models do, but if you're using older or custom models, check with your provider.

:::

Once configured, your model provider powers Casibase's chat interface, document Q&A, and other AI features. You can switch between providers anytime to compare results or optimize for cost and performance.

![Casibase-providers-view](/img/walkthrough-guides/casibase-model-view.png)

Commit message:

docs: add DS V3.2, Claude Opus 4.5, Moonshot Kimi K2 models (#146)

docs/providers/model-providers.md, after:

---
title: Model Providers
keywords: [Casibase, Model Provider]
authors: [IsAurora6]
---

## Introduction

Model providers connect AI capabilities to your Casibase instance. They power everything from chatbots to document analysis by integrating large language models (LLMs) directly into your knowledge base workflows.

### Add a Model Provider

Adding a model provider takes just a few clicks:

Click the `Providers` button on the home page.

![Casibase-home-providers](/img/walkthrough-guides/casibase-home-providers.png)

Click the `Add` button to add a model provider.

![Casibase-providers-add](/img/walkthrough-guides/casibase-providers-add.png)

#### Fill in Model Provider Details

Fill in the model provider details and click the `Save & Exit` button.

![Casibase-model-openai](/img/walkthrough-guides/casibase-model-openai.png)

### Supported Providers

| Provider | Models & Features |
|----------|-------------------|
| [OpenAI](https://openai.com/) | GPT-3.5-turbo, GPT-4, o1 series. Reasoning models show step-by-step thinking. Web search available for real-time information. |
| [Azure OpenAI](https://azure.microsoft.com/en-us/products/ai-foundry/models/openai/) | Access OpenAI models through Azure infrastructure with official SDK support. |
| [Alibaba Cloud](https://www.alibabacloud.com/) | Qwen models and DeepSeek (v3, v3.1, v3.2, R1). Web search with inline results. |
| [DeepSeek](https://www.deepseek.com/) | DeepSeek V3.2 with chat and reasoner variants for advanced reasoning. Updated pricing for improved affordability. |
| [Claude](https://www.anthropic.com/) | Anthropic's Claude family including the new Opus 4.5 for complex tasks, plus Sonnet and Haiku variants for balanced performance and speed. |
| [Moonshot (Kimi)](https://www.moonshot.cn/) | Moonshot v1 series (8k, 32k, 128k context) and Kimi K2 models with preview, turbo, and thinking variants. Auto-tier pricing with kimi-latest. |
| [Hugging Face](https://huggingface.co/) | Open-source models including Llama-2, ChatGLM2, Baichuan2, and thousands more. |
| [OpenRouter](https://openrouter.ai/) | Unified API access to Claude, PaLM, GPT-4, and other providers. |
| [Ollama](https://ollama.com/) | Run models like Llama, Mistral, and Phi locally on your machine. No API key needed. |

:::caution Configuration Notes

When adding a provider, configure these fields:

- **Category**: Choose `Model` for language models or `Embedding` for text vectorization
- **Type**: Select the specific provider (OpenAI, Hugging Face, Ollama, etc.)
- **SecretKey**: Your API key or access token
  - Required for cloud providers like OpenAI, Azure OpenAI, DeepSeek
  - Not needed for Ollama (runs locally without authentication)

**Example: Adding OpenAI**

![Casibase-model-select](/img/walkthrough-guides/casibase-model-select.png)

:::

:::caution Streaming Support

Not all models support streaming output (showing responses as they're generated). GPT-3.5-turbo and most modern models do, but if you're using older or custom models, check with your provider.

:::

Once configured, your model provider powers Casibase's chat interface, document Q&A, and other AI features. You can switch between providers anytime to compare results or optimize for cost and performance.

![Casibase-providers-view](/img/walkthrough-guides/casibase-model-view.png)
