docs/basic/casdoor-sso.md, before:

---
title: Casdoor-SSO
description: Setup Casdoor for casibase
keywords: [Casdoor, SSO, Security, Authentication, Authorization]
authors: [palp1tate]
---

```mdx-code-block
import styles from '.././styles.module.css';
import CasdoorCard from "@site/src/components/CasdoorCard";
```

Casibase uses Casdoor as its identity and single-sign-on (SSO) provider. Make sure to deploy it in advance.

Please refer to [Casdoor Server Installation](https://casdoor.org/docs/basic/server-installation) to install and configure Casdoor.

Follow these steps to setup Casdoor for casibase:

- Create an Organization

![create-organization](/img/create-organization.png)

- Configure information about the Organization

![configure-organization](/img/configure-organization.png)

- Create a new Application

![create-application](/img/create-application.png)

- Configuring Application Information (Remember Name, ClientID and ClientSecret)

![configure-application](/img/configure-application.png)

- Add a member to the newly created organization

![add-user](/img/add-user-1.png)

![add-user](/img/add-user-2.png)

- Configure member information (remember its Name as well as Password)

![configure-user](/img/configure-user-1.png)

![configure-user](/img/configure-user-2.png)

Commit message:

docs: add certificate configuration instructions to Casdoor SSO setup (#57)

docs/basic/casdoor-sso.md, after:

---
title: Casdoor-SSO
description: Setup Casdoor for casibase
keywords: [Casdoor, SSO, Security, Authentication, Authorization]
authors: [palp1tate]
---

```mdx-code-block
import styles from '.././styles.module.css';
import CasdoorCard from "@site/src/components/CasdoorCard";
```

Casibase uses Casdoor as its identity and single-sign-on (SSO) provider. Make sure to deploy it in advance.

Please refer to [Casdoor Server Installation](https://casdoor.org/docs/basic/server-installation) to install and configure Casdoor.

Follow these steps to setup Casdoor for casibase:

- Create an Organization

![create-organization](/img/create-organization.png)

- Configure information about the Organization

![configure-organization](/img/configure-organization.png)

- Create a new Application

![create-application](/img/create-application.png)

- Configuring Application Information (Remember Name, ClientID and ClientSecret)

![configure-application](/img/configure-application.png)

- Create a Certificate: In the Casdoor dashboard, choose Cert → Add, keep `Algorithm` as `RS256` (default), enter a name, and click Save.

![create-cert](/img/create-cert.png)  

- Bind the Certificate to the Application: Open the *Config* tab of your newly created Application, select the certificate you just created from the Cert dropdown, and click Save.

![bind-cert](/img/bind-cert.png)

- Add a member to the newly created organization

![add-user](/img/add-user-1.png)

![add-user](/img/add-user-2.png)

- Configure member information (remember its Name as well as Password)

![configure-user](/img/configure-user-1.png)

![configure-user](/img/configure-user-2.png)
