docs/basic/server-installation.md, before:

---
title: Server Installation
description: Install and configure Casdoor server
keywords: [Casibase server, installation, configuration]
authors: [kv-chiu, palp1tate]
---

## Requirements

### OS

All major operating systems including Windows, Linux and macOS are supported.

### Environment

- [Go 1.20+](https://go.dev/dl/)
- [Node.js LTS (18)](https://nodejs.org)
- [Yarn 1.x](https://classic.yarnpkg.com/en/docs/install)

:::info

The use of Casibase is divided into two steps:

- step1: [Deploy and run Casdoor](https://casdoor.org/docs/basic/server-installation)
- step2: Deploy and run Casibase (this docs)

We strongly suggest you use [Yarn 1.x](https://classic.yarnpkg.com/en/docs/install) to run & build Casdoor&Casibase frontend, using NPM might cause UI styling issues, see more details at: [casdoor#294](https://github.com/casdoor/casdoor/issues/294)

:::

:::caution

For **Chinese** users, in order to download the Go dependency packages successfully, you need to use a Go proxy by Configuring the GOPROXY environment variable. We strongly recommend: <https://goproxy.cn/>

:::

### Database

Casibase uses [XORM](https://xorm.io/) to talk to the database. Based on [Xorm Drivers Support](https://gitea.com/xorm/xorm#drivers-support), Casibase currently provides support for the following databases:

- `MySQL`
- `MariaDB`
- `PostgreSQL`
- `CockroachDB`
- `SQL Server`
- `Oracle`
- `SQLite 3`
- `TiDB`

## Download

The source code of Casibase is hosted at GitHub: <https://github.com/casibase/casibase>. Both the Go backend code and React frontend code are inside the single repository.

| Name     | Description                      | Language              | Source code                                          |
|----------|----------------------------------|-----------------------|------------------------------------------------------|
| Frontend | Web frontend UI for Casibase     | JavaScript + React    | <https://github.com/casibase/casibase/tree/master/web> |
| Backend  | RESTful API backend for Casibase | Golang + Beego + XORM | <https://github.com/casibase/casibase>                 |

Casibase supports `Go Modules`. To download the code, you can just simply clone the code via git:

```shell
cd path/to/folder
git clone https://github.com/casibase/casibase
```

## Configuration

### Configure Casdoor

Please refer to [Casdoor-SSO](/docs/basic/casdoor-sso) section to configure Casdoor.

Remember your `clientId`,`clientSecret`,`organization`,`application` and so on in Casdoor configuration, we will use them later.

### Configure Database

Casibase supports mysql, mssql, sqlite3, postgres. Casibase uses mysql by default.

#### MySQL

Casibase will store its users, nodes and topics information in a MySQL database named: `casibase`. If the database does not exist, it needs to be created manually. The DB connection string can be specified at: <https://github.com/casibase/casibase/blob/master/conf/app.conf>

  ```ini
  driverName = mysql
  dataSourceName = root:123456@tcp(localhost:3306)/
  dbName = casibase
  ```

#### PostgreSQL

Since we must choose a database when opening Postgres with xorm, you should prepare a database manually before running Casibase.

Let's assume that you have already prepared a database called `casibase`, then you should specify `app.conf` like this:

  ```ini
  driverName = postgres
  dataSourceName = "user=postgres password=postgres host=localhost port=5432 sslmode=disable dbname=casibase"
  dbName =
  ```

:::info

For PostgreSQL, make sure `dataSourceName` has non-empty `dbName` and leave the standalone `dbName` field empty like the above example.

:::

#### CockroachDB

You can also use Cockroachdb with postgres driver. It has same configuration as postgreSQL.

  ```ini
  driverName = postgres
  dataSourceName = "user=postgres password=postgres host=localhost port=5432 sslmode=disable dbname=casibase serial_normalization=virtual_sequence"
  dbName =
  ```

:::info

For CockroachDB, don't forget to add `serial_normalization=virtual_sequence` to the `dataSourceName` like the above example. otherwise you will get error regarding existed database, whenever the service starts or restarts. Notice, this must be added before the database created.

:::

#### Sqlite3

You should specify `app.conf` like this:

```ini
driverName = sqlite
dataSourceName = "file:casibase.db?cache=shared"
dbName = casibase
```

### Custom configuration

Casibase supports custom configuration, you can modify the configuration file `conf/app.conf` to change the configuration.

- Backend (conf/app.conf)

```ini
casdoorEndpoint = <Your Casdoor endpoint>
clientId = <Your Casdoor application's client ID>
clientSecret = <Your Casdoor application's client secret>
casdoorOrganization = <Your Casdoor organization name>
casdoorApplication = <Your Casdoor application name>
```

- Frontend (web/src/Conf.js)

```js
serverUrl: "<Your Casdoor endpoint>"
clientId: "<Your Casdoor application's client ID>" 
appName: "<Your Casdoor application name>"
organizationName: "<Your Casdoor organization name>"
```

## Run

There are currently two methods to start, you can choose one according to your own situation.

:::caution

**Casibase** requires **Casdoor** to provide access control and some back-end services, so you must make sure **Casdoor** is running properly before running **Casibase**.

How to install and run Casdoor:

- [Casdoor Installation](https://casdoor.org/docs/basic/server-installation)

:::

### Development mode

#### Backend

Casibase's Go backend runs at port 14000 by default. You can start the Go backend with the following command:

```bash
go run main.go
```

After the server is successfully running, we can start the frontend part.

#### Frontend

Casibase's frontend is a very classic [**Create-React-App (CRA)**](https://create-react-app.dev/) project. It runs at port `13001` by default. Use the following commands to run the frontend:

```bash
cd web
yarn install
yarn start
```

### Production mode

#### Backend

Build Casibase Go backend code into executable and start it.

For Linux:

```bash
go build
./casibase
```

For Windows:

```bash
go build
casibase.exe
```

#### Frontend

Build Casibase frontend code into static resources (.html, .js, .css files):

```bash
cd web
yarn install
yarn build
```

## Preview

Visit: `http://localhost:13001` in your browser. Login into Casibase dashboard with the user account you have just registered in Casdoor:

![login](/img/login-casibase.png)

Then you will go to the home page of Casibase:

![home](/img/casibase-home.png)

:::tip

To use another port, please edit ```conf/app.conf``` and modify `httpport`, then restart the Go backend.

:::

Commit message:

docs: Add more information to the ‘Server Installation’ page

docs/basic/server-installation.md, after:

---
title: Server Installation
description: Install and configure Casdoor server
keywords: [Casibase server, installation, configuration]
authors: [kv-chiu, palp1tate]
---

## Requirements

### OS

All major operating systems including Windows, Linux and macOS are supported.

### Environment

- [Go 1.20+](https://go.dev/dl/)
- [Node.js LTS (18)](https://nodejs.org)
- [Yarn 1.x](https://classic.yarnpkg.com/en/docs/install)

:::info

The use of Casibase is divided into two steps:

- step1: [Deploy and run Casdoor](https://casdoor.org/docs/basic/server-installation)
- step2: Deploy and run Casibase (this docs)

We strongly suggest you use [Yarn 1.x](https://classic.yarnpkg.com/en/docs/install) to run & build Casdoor&Casibase frontend, using NPM might cause UI styling issues, see more details at: [casdoor#294](https://github.com/casdoor/casdoor/issues/294)

:::

:::caution

For **Chinese** users, in order to download the Go dependency packages successfully, you need to use a Go proxy by Configuring the GOPROXY environment variable. We strongly recommend: <https://goproxy.cn/>

:::

### Database

Casibase uses [XORM](https://xorm.io/) to talk to the database. Based on [Xorm Drivers Support](https://gitea.com/xorm/xorm#drivers-support), Casibase currently provides support for the following databases:

- `MySQL`
- `MariaDB`
- `PostgreSQL`
- `CockroachDB`
- `SQL Server`
- `Oracle`
- `SQLite 3`
- `TiDB`

### guacd

Casibase uses guacamole-server to provide remote desktop access. If you want to use this feature, you need to install
guacamole-server first. If you haven't installed guacamole-server, please refer to [guacamole-server Installation](https://guacamole.apache.org/doc/gug/installing-guacamole.html).

You can also run guacd in docker with the following command:

```shell
docker run -d --name guacd -p 4822:4822 guacamole/guacd
```

## Download

The source code of Casibase is hosted at GitHub: <https://github.com/casibase/casibase>. Both the Go backend code and React frontend code are inside the single repository.

| Name     | Description                      | Language              | Source code                                          |
|----------|----------------------------------|-----------------------|------------------------------------------------------|
| Frontend | Web frontend UI for Casibase     | JavaScript + React    | <https://github.com/casibase/casibase/tree/master/web> |
| Backend  | RESTful API backend for Casibase | Golang + Beego + XORM | <https://github.com/casibase/casibase>                 |

Casibase supports `Go Modules`. To download the code, you can just simply clone the code via git:

```shell
cd path/to/folder
git clone https://github.com/casibase/casibase
```

## Configuration

### Configure Casdoor

Please refer to [Casdoor-SSO](/docs/basic/casdoor-sso) section to configure Casdoor.

Remember your `clientId`,`clientSecret`,`organization`,`application` and so on in Casdoor configuration, we will use them later.

### Configure Database

Casibase supports mysql, mssql, sqlite3, postgres. Casibase uses mysql by default.

#### MySQL

Casibase will store its users, nodes and topics information in a MySQL database named: `casibase`. If the database does not exist, it needs to be created manually. The DB connection string can be specified at: <https://github.com/casibase/casibase/blob/master/conf/app.conf>

  ```ini
  driverName = mysql
  dataSourceName = root:123456@tcp(localhost:3306)/
  dbName = casibase
  ```

#### PostgreSQL

Since we must choose a database when opening Postgres with xorm, you should prepare a database manually before running Casibase.

Let's assume that you have already prepared a database called `casibase`, then you should specify `app.conf` like this:

  ```ini
  driverName = postgres
  dataSourceName = "user=postgres password=postgres host=localhost port=5432 sslmode=disable dbname=casibase"
  dbName =
  ```

:::info

For PostgreSQL, make sure `dataSourceName` has non-empty `dbName` and leave the standalone `dbName` field empty like the above example.

:::

#### CockroachDB

You can also use Cockroachdb with postgres driver. It has same configuration as postgreSQL.

  ```ini
  driverName = postgres
  dataSourceName = "user=postgres password=postgres host=localhost port=5432 sslmode=disable dbname=casibase serial_normalization=virtual_sequence"
  dbName =
  ```

:::info

For CockroachDB, don't forget to add `serial_normalization=virtual_sequence` to the `dataSourceName` like the above example. otherwise you will get error regarding existed database, whenever the service starts or restarts. Notice, this must be added before the database created.

:::

#### Sqlite3

You should specify `app.conf` like this:

```ini
driverName = sqlite
dataSourceName = "file:casibase.db?cache=shared"
dbName = casibase
```

### Custom configuration

Casibase supports custom configuration, you can modify the configuration file `conf/app.conf` to change the configuration.

- Backend (conf/app.conf)

```ini
casdoorEndpoint = <Your Casdoor endpoint>
clientId = <Your Casdoor application's client ID>
clientSecret = <Your Casdoor application's client secret>
casdoorOrganization = <Your Casdoor organization name>
casdoorApplication = <Your Casdoor application name>
```

- Frontend (web/src/Conf.js)

```js
serverUrl: "<Your Casdoor endpoint>"
clientId: "<Your Casdoor application's client ID>" 
appName: "<Your Casdoor application name>"
organizationName: "<Your Casdoor organization name>"
```

## Run

There are currently two methods to start, you can choose one according to your own situation.

:::caution

**Casibase** requires **Casdoor** to provide access control and some back-end services, so you must make sure **Casdoor** is running properly before running **Casibase**.

How to install and run Casdoor:

- [Casdoor Installation](https://casdoor.org/docs/basic/server-installation)

:::

### Development mode

#### Backend

Casibase's Go backend runs at port 14000 by default. You can start the Go backend with the following command:

```bash
go run main.go
```

After the server is successfully running, we can start the frontend part.

#### Frontend

Casibase's frontend is a very classic [**Create-React-App (CRA)**](https://create-react-app.dev/) project. It runs at port `13001` by default. Use the following commands to run the frontend:

```bash
cd web
yarn install
yarn start
```

### Production mode

#### Backend

Build Casibase Go backend code into executable and start it.

For Linux:

```bash
go build
./casibase
```

For Windows:

```bash
go build
casibase.exe
```

#### Frontend

Build Casibase frontend code into static resources (.html, .js, .css files):

```bash
cd web
yarn install
yarn build
```

#### Nginx

:::tip
If you use nginx as a reverse proxy, you need to add the following configuration to the nginx configuration file:

```bash
location / {
    *** your configuration ***
    proxy_set_header Upgrade $http_upgrade;
    proxy_set_header Connection "upgrade";
}
```

Because Casibase uses websocket to communicate with guacd.

## Preview

Visit: `http://localhost:13001` in your browser. Login into Casibase dashboard with the user account you have just registered in Casdoor:

![login](/img/login-casibase.png)

Then you will go to the home page of Casibase:

![home](/img/casibase-home.png)

:::tip

To use another port, please edit ```conf/app.conf``` and modify `httpport`, then restart the Go backend.

:::
